bugs.txt
--------

If TOMCAT env var is not set when we do runExperiment, we get an abort. Could we
check that it is set via the getenv() system call and exit with a better error
message? 

If we kill runExperiment, then Minecraft is not useable, even though it seems to
be running. Likely more cleanup in runExperiment and/or dealing with signals 2
and 15 (and perhaps others---I can help choose which) is needed? To reproduce,
start the runExperiment, and then do a ctl-c. runExperiment dies, but Minecraft
still displays the mission. 

If I run two missions in a row without killing Minecraft, I often (always?)
loose my cursor control. I think this is whenever the mission does not exit
successfully?

UPDATE: The timer is forgotten if you die and "respawn". Also, if you respawn,
then you cannot affect the villager saved count. So, we need a strategy for what
to do if we die, and how to clean up. (While I am not sure if I respawned in the
initial case that I reported on below, but this is the likeliest explanation.) 
     PREVIOUS: Once I had the time limit set to 30s and then went wondering
     around in the wrong direction, and the time limit was forgotten. HOWEVER, I
     have not been able to reproduce this. 

When the SRA mission begins, it tells you that you should save the villagers:
Perhaps remind the player how to do it by adding "by bumping into them". 

Is it easy to (more significantly) change the appearance of villager who has
been saved? (Or just make them disappear (beamed up)? 

The crafting instructions (second screen) it should be more clear that you are
matching the exact pattern shown in the picture. Once they click OK, they will
not be able to see the pattern. I am guessing the pattern "axe-shaped", in which
case, perhaps refer to that---otherwise the pattern seems arbitrary. 

The instruction for opening an iron door should say more explicitly where to
click. You do not simply click next to it.  You need to click on the brown part.
Clicking on the gray end does not work. The instruction should be more specific. 

Can we provide a way to restart the specific subtask (i.e., back the previous
instruction screen)? It is possible to end up wondering around aimlessly, trying
to remember what it was that you were going to do. 

If run_session fails, it needs to exit with non-zero status. If the issue is
with malmo, hopefully we can get an error from malmo/Minecraft. I can help hack
it if needed. Here is an example of failure because Minecraft needs to be
restarted (but to do so, we need to know that the run failed--right now I have a
hack for it).
    kobus@alpine:~/projects/ASIST/mission/run_session_try_2/tomcat$ /Volumes/home/kobus/projects/ASIST/mission/run_session_try_2/tomcat/build/bin/runExperiment --mission 0
    Waiting for the mission to start...Error starting mission: Failed to find an
    available client for this mission - tried all (BLAH BLAH BLAH) 
    kobus@alpine:~/projects/ASIST/mission/run_session_try_2/tomcat$ echo $?
    0        (I would expect a non-zero value here)




Original content of KB-notes.txt

Install
   
    


Run 
    Launch should be faster and integrated with running the mission

    Scripts should be in one place and robust to how they are called. 

    It is not clear how and when the env var TOMCAT is or should be used.


Game
    It is not clear that "you" are quite wide and that it is your right arm that
    you see. Getting through a tight passage might be on more thing to do in the
    tutorial mission.

    "e" key --- I assume for us. Easy to hit instead of "w". Any options as to
    how the keys work? 

    Short delay after success? 

    Success for seeing creatures is not clear. 

    What is the amphitheatre is not so clear. Gate latch also.


